# ludoproject
INSTRCTIONS COPIED FROM PROJECT DOCUMENT 
######
Our code is built using Haskell's cabal which is a build tool and Haskell's graphics package Gloss. These are both needed to run the code. The following steps are for Linux/Mac and assuming you already have Haskell installed. First step is to install cabal, this is done by running the cabal-install command in your terminal. After cabal has been installed, the next step is to get Gloss. This is done by running cabal install gloss in the terminal. When gloss has been installed, download the random package for Haskell as well. This is needed to use the dice in the game. To get the random package, run cabal install random in the terminal.\newline Now that all the necessary packages has been installed, make a new directory and name this whatever you want (we will refer to this as the Ludo directory from now on). From the terminal change to the Ludo directory and run cabal init, this will create all the needed files for an executable. Then execute cabal run, this will build and run the executable in the project. Now this should have created some new files and directories in the Ludo directory. The only ones that are important to run the game is the app directory and the Ludo.cabal file (This file will have the same name as the directory it is in for you). Open the .cabal file with any text editor program and scroll down to the 'build-depends:' line. Here add the following lines: 'gloss==1.13.2.1, array==0.5.4.0, random==1.2.1, time==1.9.3'. \newline Now download the Main.hs file from github and copy it into the app directory. Do not git pull directly into the Ludo directory, make a new directory and copy the Main.hs file from there. Now open the terminal again and make your way to the Ludo directory and do cabal run from there, this should run the game. If the game won't start make sure that, in the .cabal file, the 'main-is:' line only have 'Main.hs' as the argument. Also 'hs-source-dirs:' line have 'app' as the only argument. 
######
Once the game loads you can click on the dice square (black box) to simulate a dice throw, the game always starts with the red player and goes clockwise. When you throw a six you can click on a piece in it's base and it will be moved to it's starting position on the board. A players turn won't change if you haven't made a move, if a move is possible. To move a piece on the board, simply click on the piece you wish to move and the piece will move the same steps as the dice shows. To win the player have to get all pieces from their base to the center square. In order to land on the center square the player have to throw the exact number needed to land on it, otherwise the piece will be moved back. 
